# CHAPTER 85

## MACHINES, APPARATUS AND ELECTRICAL MATERIAL AND PARTS; RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS FOR SOUND, RECORDING OR REPRODUCING APPARATUS FOR IMAGES AND SOUND IN TELEVISION, AND PARTS AND ACCESSORIES FOR THESE APPARATUS

## Notes.

1.- Excluded from this Chapter are:
a) electrically heated blankets, cushions, sleeping bags and similar items; clothing, shoes, ear warmers and other electrically heated articles worn on the person;
b) glass articles of heading 70.11;
c) machines and apparatus of heading 84.86;
d) vacuum cleaners of the types used in medicine, surgery or for dental or veterinary practices (heading 90.18);
e) electrically heated furniture of Chapter 94.
2.- Items that may fall under headings 85.01 to 85.04, on the one hand, and under headings 85.11, 85.12, 85.40, 85.41 or 85.42, on the other hand, are classified in the latter five positions.

However, mercury vapor mutators with a metal tank remain included under heading 85.04.
3.- For the purposes of heading 85.07, the term "electric accumulators" also includes accumulators presented with auxiliary elements that contribute to the storage and supply of energy fulfilled by the accumulator or which are intended to protect the latter from potential damages, such as electric connectors, temperature control devices (thermistors, for example) and circuit protection devices. They may also include part of the protective envelope of the appliances to which they are intended.
4.- Heading 85.09 covers, provided that they are electromechanical devices of types commonly used for domestic purposes:
a) floor polishers, food processors and blenders, fruit presses and vegetable presses, of all weights;
b) other devices with a maximum weight of 20 kg, excluding fans and range hoods with built-in or filter fans (heading 84.14), centrifugal laundry dryers (heading 84.21), dishwashers (heading 84.22), washing machines (heading 84.50), irons (heading 84.20 or 84.51, depending on whether they are calenders or not), sewing machines (heading 84.52), electric scissors (heading 84.67) and electrothermal devices (heading 85.16).
5.- For the purpose of heading 85.17, "smartphones" are understood as mobile phones equipped for cellular networks, with an operating system designed to ensure the functions of an automatic information processing machine such as downloading and running several applications simultaneously, including third-party applications, and equipped with other features such as a digital camera or a navigation system.
6.- For the purpose of heading 85.23:
a) the term "data storage devices based on semiconductors" (e.g., "flash memory cards" or "flash electronic memory cards") refers to storage devices featuring a connector, comprising one or more flash memories ("E-PROM FLASH," for example), in the form of integrated circuits mounted on a printed circuit board. They may contain a controller in the form of an integrated circuit and discrete passive components such as capacitors and resistors;
b) the term "smart cards" refers to cards that contain, embedded within the material, one or more electronic integrated circuits (a microprocessor, a RAM or ROM memory) in the form of chips. These cards can be equipped with contacts, a magnetic strip or an integrated antenna but do not contain any additional active or passive circuit elements.
7.- For the purpose of heading 85.24, the term "flat panel display module" refers to devices or apparatus designed to display information, equipped at minimum with a display screen, which are intended to be incorporated into items falling under other headings before their use. The display screens of flat panel display modules can be flat, curved, flexible, foldable or extendable. Flat panel display modules may incorporate additional elements, including those necessary for receiving video signals and distributing these signals into pixels on the screen. However, heading 85.24 does not include display modules equipped with components designed to convert video signals (e.g., a scaling integrated circuit, a decoder integrated circuit or an application processor) or which have taken on the nature of goods under other headings. For the purposes of classifying flat panel display modules defined in this Note, heading 85.24 takes precedence over any other position in the nomenclature.
8.- The term "printed circuits" under heading 85.34 refers to circuits produced by arranging conductive elements, contacts or other printed components (inductances, resistances, capacitances, for example) on an insulating support, by any printing method (embedding, electroplating, etching, in particular) or through so-called "layer" technology, alone or combined according to a pre-established pattern, excluding any element capable of producing, rectifying, modulating or amplifying an electrical signal (e.g., semiconductor elements). The term "printed circuits" does not cover circuits combined with elements other than those obtained during the printing process, nor discrete resistors, capacitors or inductors.

However, printed circuits may be equipped with non-printed connection elements. Layered circuits (thin or thick) containing passive and active elements obtained during the same technological process fall under heading 85.42.
9.- For the purposes of heading 85.36, the term "connectors for optical fibers, optical fiber bundles or cables" refers to connectors which are used solely to mechanically align optical fibers end-to-end in a line system. They do not perform any other function such as amplification, regeneration or modification of a signal.
10.- Heading 85.37 does not include wireless devices with infrared rays for remote control of television receivers and other electrical devices (heading 85.43).
11.- For the purposes of heading 85.39, the term "light-emitting diode (LED) light sources" covers:
a) LED modules, which are electrical light sources based on light-emitting diodes (LEDs), arranged in electric circuits and containing electrical, mechanical, thermal or optical elements. They also include active or passive discrete elements or articles of headings 85.36 or 85.42 in order to provide power or control power. The LED modules do not have a base designed for easy installation or replacement in a luminaire and to allow electrical contact and mechanical fixation.
b) LED lamps and tubes, which are electrical light sources composed of one or more LED modules, containing other elements such as electrical, mechanical, thermal or optical components. They differ from LED modules in that they have a base designed for easy installation or replacement in a luminaire and to allow electrical contact and mechanical fixation.
12.- Under headings 85.41 and 85.42, the following are considered:
a) 1°) "Semiconductor devices" refers to devices whose operation relies on changes in resistivity under the influence of an electric field or semiconductor transducers. Semiconductor devices may also include an assembly of several elements, even equipped with active or passive devices whose function is auxiliary. For the purposes of this definition, semiconductor transducers are semiconductor sensors, semiconductor actuators, semiconductor resonators and semiconductor oscillators, which are types of discrete semiconductor devices that serve intrinsic functions and can convert any type of physical or chemical phenomenon or action into an electrical signal or convert an electrical signal into any type of physical phenomenon or action. All elements composing a transducer are gathered in an inseparable manner and may also include inseparable materials necessary for the construction or operation of a semiconductor device.
For the purposes of this definition:
1) The term "semiconductor" means constructed or made on a semiconductor substrate or consisting of semiconductor-based materials, made by semiconductor technology, in which the substrate or semiconductor materials play a critical and irreplaceable role in the function and performance of the transducer and whose operation is based on semiconductor properties, physical, electrical, chemical and optical properties.
2) Physical or chemical phenomena refer to phenomena such as pressure, sound waves, acceleration, vibration, movement, orientation, stress, intensity of magnetic field, intensity of electric field, light, radioactivity, humidity, creep, concentration of chemicals, etc.
3) Semiconductor sensors are a type of semiconductor devices constituted by microelectronic or mechanical structures created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor whose function is to detect physical or chemical quantities and convert them into electrical signals produced by resulting variations in electrical properties or deformation of the mechanical structure.
4) Semiconductor actuators are a type of semiconductor devices constituted by microelectronic and mechanical structures created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor whose function is to convert electrical signals into physical movement.
5) Semiconductor resonators are a type of semiconductor devices constituted by microelectronic and mechanical structures created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor whose function is to generate mechanical or electrical oscillation at a predefined frequency that depends on the physical geometry of these structures in response to an external electrical signal.
6) Semiconductor oscillators are a type of semiconductor devices constituted by microelectronic or mechanical structures created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor whose function is to generate mechanical or electrical oscillation at a predefined frequency that depends on the physical geometry of these structures.
2°) "Light-emitting diodes (LEDs)" are semiconductor devices made from semiconductor materials that convert electrical energy into visible, infrared or ultraviolet radiation, even when electrically interconnected and even combined with protection diodes. The LEDs of heading 85.41 do not include elements for providing power or controlling power;
b) Integrated circuits:
1°) Monolithic integrated circuits in which circuit elements (diodes, transistors, resistances, capacitances, inductances, etc.) are created in the mass (essentially) and on the surface of a semiconductor material (e.g., doped silicon, gallium arsenide, silicon-germanium, indium phosphide), forming an inseparable whole;
2°) Hybrid integrated circuits that combine, in a practically inseparable manner, through interconnections or bond wires, on the same insulating substrate (glass, ceramic, etc.) passive elements (resistances, capacitances, inductances, etc.) obtained by thin or thick layer circuit technology and active elements (diodes, transistors, monolithic integrated circuits, etc.) obtained by semiconductor technology. These circuits may also include discrete components;
3°) Multi-chip integrated circuits composed of two or more interconnected monolithic integrated circuits, combined in a practically inseparable manner, resting on one or more insulating substrates and including or not pins, but without other active or passive circuit elements.
4°) Multi-component integrated circuits, which are combinations of one or more monolithic, hybrid or multi-chip integrated circuits and including at least one of the following components: sensors, actuators, silicon oscillators, even combined with each other, or components ensuring the functions of articles that could fall under headings 85.32, 85.33, or inductors that could fall under heading 85.04, and which are practically inseparable as a single entity like an integrated circuit, intended to be assembled onto a printed circuit board or in another support, by connecting pins, wire connections, hinges, pads, lumps, or disks.
For this definition:
1. Components can be discrete, manufactured independently of each other, and then assembled into a multi-component integrated circuit or integrated with other components.
2. The term "on silicon" means that the component is made on a silicon substrate or consists of silicon-based materials or made on an integrated circuit chip.
3. a) Silicon sensors consist of microelectronic or mechanical structures that are created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor and whose function is to detect physical or chemical phenomena and convert them into electrical signals when variations in electrical properties occur or mechanical structure deformation. Physical or chemical phenomena relate to phenomena such as pressure, sound waves, acceleration, vibration, movement, orientation, stress, intensity of magnetic field, intensity of electric field, light, radioactivity, humidity, creep, concentration of chemicals, etc.
b) Silicon actuators consist of microelectronic and mechanical structures that are created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor and whose function is to convert electrical signals into physical movement.
c) Silicon resonators are components consisting of microelectronic or mechanical structures created in the mass or surface of a semiconductor and whose function is to generate mechanical or electrical oscillation of a predetermined frequency that depends on the physical geometry of these structures in response to an external input.
d) Silicon oscillators are active components consisting of microelectronic or mechanical structures created in the mass or on the surface of a semiconductor and whose function is to generate mechanical or electrical oscillation of a predetermined frequency that depends on the physical geometry of these structures.
For the purpose of classifying articles defined in this Note, headings 85.41 and 85.42 take precedence over any other position in the nomenclature, except for heading 85.23 which may cover them due solely to their function.
12.- For the purpose of heading 85.48, the term "worn-out electric batteries and accumulators" refers to those that have become unusable as such due to breakage, cutting, wear, or other reasons or that cannot be recharged.

# Subposition Notes. 

1. - Heading 8525.81 includes only television cameras, digital cameras, and ultra-fast camcorders that have one or more of the following characteristics:

- recording speed greater than 0.5 mm per microsecond;
- temporal resolution of 50 nanoseconds or less;
- frame rate exceeding 225,000 frames per second.

2- Regarding heading 8525.82, radiation-resistant cameras are designed or shielded to operate in environments exposed to high radiation levels. These cameras are designed to withstand a total radiation dose of more than 50 x 10^{3} Gy (silicon) (5 x 10^{6} rad (silicon)) without impairing their operation.

3.- Subposition 8525.83 covers television cameras, digital cameras and night vision camcorders that use a photocathode to convert available natural light into electrons that can be amplified and converted to produce a visible image. This subposition excludes thermal imaging cameras (heading 8525.89, generally).
4.- Heading 8527.12 covers only radio cassettes with a built-in amplifier, without a built-in speaker, capable of operating without an external electric power source and whose dimensions do not exceed 170 mm x 100 mm x 45 mm.
5.- For the purposes of headings 8549.11 to 8549.19, "worn-out electric batteries and accumulators" refers to those that have become unusable as such due to breakage, cutting, wear or other reasons or that are not rechargeable. 
# Additional Notes. 

1. Only collections composed of the following elements fall under heading 8511.30.10.00: iron or steel parts cut into shape from flat-rolled products, a brass-tipped rod, a blade connector, and a casing for primary and secondary circuits made of plastic.
2. Only collections composed of the following elements fall under heading 8511.90.20.00: a base, a stainless steel shaft, a flat grain, a latch, a domed grain, a flat spring, a push button, a flat rivet, a cannon, a connecting angle, an insulator, a hollow rivet, and a counter rivet.
3. Only collections composed of the following elements fall under heading 8512.30.10.00: a casing, a cover, a membrane, a circuit, a nylon ring, a blade connector, three washers, a flat spring, a framework, and a steel rivet.
4. Only collections composed of the following elements fall under heading 8536.90.30.00: a body, two half-shells, a brass current-conducting screw, a resistor, two current-conducting springs, a shell spring, a current-conducting ball, a nut and a plastic washer, with a plastic end and nut for electrical cable.
5. For the application of heading 8536.20, the following definitions apply:
a) "domestic application circuit breakers" refer to circuit breakers whose nominal current is within the following range: 6 A ≤ I ≤ 19 A: intensity equal to or greater than 6 amperes but not exceeding 19 amperes.
b) "industrial application circuit breakers" refer to circuit breakers whose nominal current is such that: I<6A or I>19A: strictly less than 6 amperes or strictly greater than 19 amperes.
6.- An electrical cell, for the purposes of numbers 8535.21.00.40 and 8535.30.90.40, means any metallic envelope containing cutting, sectioning, or protection devices, interrupting in air, oil, gas, or vacuum, used in an electrical substation of voltage not exceeding 60,000 V.
7.- No panel consisting of combinations of electrical cells belonging to tariff positions 8535.21.00.40 and 8535.30.90.40 can be classified under 8537.20.00.90.
8.- Discs, tapes and other media of heading 85.23 when presented with the apparatus to which they are intended are classified together with said apparatus, applying RGI 3b) or 3c).